1. Cover page of story map 
Title 1-1 
Arts employment by state and metropolitan area Your Name 
Subtitle 1-2   
Employment levels, average wages, and cost of living index 
Alternative text 1-3 
Background image with abstract art on cover page of story. 
 
2. Introduction 
Heading 2-1 
Arts Employment 
 
Subheading 2-2  
Where are the jobs in the arts field? What are average wages versus cost of living?  
 
Paragraphs 2-3 
If your career interests lie in the arts field, broadly speaking (including arts, design, entertainment, 
sports, and media occupations ), this story map can help you analyze locations across the U.S. where you 
might live in regard finding jobs and financial prospects. 
Of importance for job searching in the arts field is that there are huge variations by state and 
metropolitan area in employment levels, average wages, and cost of living. As you might suspect, wages 
in the arts and cost of living are positively correlated (71%), so the job with the highest wages across 
different cities of the country may not be the best option financially because of high cost of living. You 
might be better off with a good, but not top-paying job elsewhere because of lower cost of living.  
To help you explore metropolitan areas for arts employment, this story map has two interactive maps 
that provide data on employment levels, average annual wages, and a cost of living index by state and 
metropolitan area. Also included is a sample calculation showing how to use the data from the maps to 
analyze the financial prospects for you of different metropolitan areas. 
Subheading 2-4  
Disclaimer 
Paragraph 2-5 
The information in this story map is generally helpful, but there are sampling errors and approximations 
involved in making estimates or otherwise using the data presented. There are no guarantees of 
accuracy. 
 

Alternative Text 2-6 
Interactive map of the lower 48 states and metropolitan areas with employment levels and annual 
wages for the arts field 
 
3. Arts Employment map 
Heading 3-1 
Arts Employment map 
Subheading 3-2 
Map use and navigation 
Bulleted list 3-3 
Click the legend button (top right, second button down) to see the map legend. Click the magnifying 
glass to search for a location. Click the layers button at the bottom on the right to turn layers on and off. 
Click the + to zoom in, - to zoom out, and house icon to zoom to the default map view. You can also drag 
the map to pan and use your mouse wheel to zoom in and out. Click the magnifying glass icon (upper 
left of map) to search for an address or place. Zoom in far enough and metropolitan areas appear as 
points. Hover over a metropolitan point to get a pop-up with data on the area. Lastly click the fourth 
button down on the left to take a screen shot of the map. 
Caption 3-4 
The top 10 states in terms of annual average wages in the arts 
Subheading 3-4 
Patterns on the map 
Caption 3-5 
The top 10 metropolitan areas in terms of wages in the arts (while only the major city is listed, data is for 
the city and surrounding metropolitan area)  
Credits 
Employment and average annual wages data  
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and its occupational classification; Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports, 
and Media Occupations http://www.bls.gov/soc/major_groups.htm 
 
Population data 
American Community Survey of the U.S. Census Bureau https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs 
 

Cost of living index data (copyrighted data and used with permission) 
Council for Community and Economic Research. https://www.c2er.org/ 
 
State and metropolitan area boundary maps 
U.S. Census Bureau https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/carto-
boundary-file.html 
 
4. Cost of Living Index map (optional Your Turn) 
Heading 4-1 
Cost of living index map 
Subheading 4-2 
The data 
Paragraph 4-3  
The Cost of living index data was generously provided by the Council for Community and Economic 
Research. It’s copyrighted data and used with permission here. Parts of the following bullets are quoted 
from documentation for the data provided by this organization.  
URL for data source (Note: Copy the URL below, select “Council for Community and Economic Research” 
in Paragraph 4-3 and use link symbol of the text editor to make that text a hyperlink by pasting the URL) 
https://www.c2er.org/ 
Bulleted list 4-4  (Note: each sentence is a separate bullet) 
The data in the map is only for metropolitan areas; non-metropolitan data exists but is not included. 
“The Cost of Living Index measures relative price levels for consumer goods and services in participating 
areas.”  “The average for all participating places, both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan, equals 100, 
and each participant’s index is read as a percentage of the average for all places.” “The Index reflects 
cost differentials for professional and executive households in the top income quintile (homeownership 
costs, for example, are more heavily weighted than they would be if the Index reflected a clerical worker 
standard of living or average costs for all urban consumers).” The index does not include state or local 
taxes. 
Subheading 4-5 
Patterns on the map 
Paragraphs 4-6 

States that have approximately average cost of living index (95 to 105) have white color fill. Those below 
average are increasing darker green the less the index. Those above average go from yellow to orange to 
red for increasing index values. See the map legend for details. 
There are remarkably cheaper and more expensive places to live in the U.S. The index range by state is 
from 84 (Mississippi) to 143 (D.C.) and by metropolitan area from the available sample from 77 to 190. 
Image 4-7 
Insert Table3 from the Resources folder with caption: The 10 least expensive metropolitan areas. 
Image 4-8 
Insert Table4 from the Resources folder with caption: The 10 most expensive metropolitan areas. 
Image 4-9 
Insert CostOfLivingWeights image from the Resources folder with caption: Shopping basket and weights 
used to estimate the cost of living index 
 
 
 