Okay, welcome to...
tutorial one dash three so we're gonna be
working with attribute data in this tutorial.
So we will start by opening to...
tutorial 1-3 so we're gonna go to our GIS for
on our desktop as we press.
GIS Pro. Check.
Chapter 1, Tutorials, and Tutorials.
And now we're going to be opening tutorial one dash three.
Okay, so.
So as usual, we're going to first save the price.
project with our last name here.
So project, safe project, and...
And then again we can do it in the same tutorial.
So we do tutorial 1-3.
with our last name.
Rosen.
And you should see the change in the
project name at the top.
Some chew.
Start with point...
clicking attributes from the federal
qualified health centers. So...
If just as a reminder to get to the attribute table, we're going to
go to FQHC clinics. We're going to
right click and we're going to open the attribute to
from here.
And what we want to do is we're going to move--
around some of these different
field. So again remember we have the show.
shape. So all of these are point data because they represent
single health centers. We have the name
address latitude, longitude, and then the
website. So if we
We want to change the order.
can drag the website.
That's what we're gonna move. We're not a highlighter.
the website and we can just drag it before the
latitude. So now we've moved it in our app
table and...
We can also...
if we want.
Sort our data by like alpha.
or in numerical order.
And one way to do that.
if we say we want to reorder the
names so that it's an alphabetical order.
We have two options here.
Again, we have two options here.
Again, I do not have a personal preference of which
one you choose to do, I'm going to show you both
ways just so that you have options.
So the
The first way we can sort these in alphabetical order, we can
And click on the name column, right click.
Then press this sort in ascending order sort of
sending and that will alpha to.
are different clinics or enough
that a quarter. The other way you can do this
which is what I tend to do is you can just
double click it and it will change the order. So you
You can see now it's an alphabetical order.
If I click it again, double click, it'll be in reverse alphabetical work.
order or descending order. So you can either write
click and sort that way or if it's easier for you.
just to double click and sort it that way. That's
totally fine. Okay so we're
We are going to close the attribute table now that we've moved our website.
and sorted our clinics and we're going to
Save our project.
So, now we are...
are going to turn off all of the layers.
Hearn on population density.
So, turn off all of these layers.
and streets, and now the
The only layer we have on is our population density.
layer which is kind of our
baseline map.
that we had. So now
Now we're going to open our attribute table for population density.
going to right click and go to
attribute table and now we start.
see that. So we see that in this attribute table,
We have again the shape and it's polygon features because
We're looking at each of the census tracts, the G.O.I.
So remember that's the actual identifier.
number that all geographical
units have. We have
the area per square miles.
We have, oh sorry, let me go back actually.
We have population.
here so we have the population for each and every one of these.
different census tracts here. So...
You can see that there's a wide variation here.
We also have the area square mile.
So the way we get our population density is
we divide our population by
our area in square miles and that's how we get popular.
density in case you were wondering.
And then again, shape length and shape area, which--
are really just more forward GIS is right.
we're not going to be using those.
So now we're gonna sort population density
in reverse order, so we're gonna have
largest one on top. So remember we
can either double click or if we want to
do it with the right clicking method.
So we highlight population density.
We're gonna right click.
and we're going to sort in descending order this time.
because we want the biggest one at the top.
So, descending order we see that
This census tract right here has the higher
population density of 29,400.
92 which is very very large.
and we're going to select
Remember, we can just click it.
So we're going to select that highest population.
density sensor shard and so we can see right now.
here it's kind of dead center where the Pittsburgh area
is which is not surprising.
And we're going to try to...
Zoom in on...
on this, so if you recall, we're going to right click
population density, which is the table we're looking at.
selection, and then zoom to select.
I had a feeling it wasn't gonna work because
It's too close, so that's fine.
If it was a larger area, you'd be able to see it.
So.
Sorry if I've misled you, but now we're
going to zoom to full extent.
and we are going to clear the selection.
So if you recall, we're going to press this button right here.
clear the selection and
And then I believe...
we can close.
this attribute table now.
So actually let's the syntafol extend again.
So now we're going to turn off population density.
And we're going to turn on municipalities.
So now we have the cities on.
of the municipalities and we're going to open the attribute
table for municipalities. So right click.
attribute table.
And now we have this.
And we're going to click the menu button on the
attribute table which is these three lines.
And we're going to go to feet.
Okay, of course it's like...
This one, so we're going to click on Field's View.
And here you can see
that we are able to kind of change around.
different variables. There's a
names which we honestly probably
probably don't want to touch ever unless it's actually your date.
The alias is kind of just like a lazy.
that we're using for each of these so it gives the user a
a little bit more context of what these variable names
are actually alluding to.
So we can.
Look to that as well.
And let's say we want to...
move around some of our variables.
So, one variable that we might want to make.
ground is the MTFCC variable.
which is right here. So if we want
to move it above the state.
variable. We're going to highlight it.
And we're going to just click this little square
right here and drag it with our mouse.
and we want to move it above the state FP variable.
So we can just make sure it's aligned above and drop it.
there.
And we need to actually save these changes.
Otherwise, if we look back here...
we're not going to see that the attribute table change at all.
not going to see that MTF CC variable that
we moved, it's not in front of the state FP variable.
because we haven't saving it. So I've got
back here and we have to press this save button at
the top under the fields page in
the Manage edits, so we'll save that.
And now you'll see it.
that the MTFCC variable is listed.
ahead of that state of p variable. So now our
Our changes are saved and we can see it.
We can also delete attributes if we want.
So again, please make sure.
sure you are very sure and it's your data and make sure you want
to delete the attribute before you actually do it.
but I'll show you how to do it if you choose to.
So one variable that we can do is we can do this.
can delete here is state F.P.
because it's not super helpful. It doesn't really...
tell us very much because we know this is
all part of the same county so every single one
One of these municipalities has the exact same value.
for state FP. They're all going to be in
Pennsylvania, we don't need that information.
It doesn't really do anything.
give us anything. So we're going
going to hide.
light state FP we're gonna right click this little square
rectangle thing right next to it and we're going
to delete the field.
So you'll see that before we...
But, um, before-
Before we actually permanently delete it, it'll do this straight.
through before we make our before we save our change.
So you can triple-click.
check. Are you sure? Do you want to delete this field?
And I'll have this little strike through first.
And we can also turn off visibility.
for different fields.
So if we wanted to--
turn off the visibility for all three.
except for G-I-D and name.
we can just check these boxes and actually I think it's easiest.
if we...
should we?
So if we uncheck all of these...
and we want to only show GeoID
a name, we can go.
G-I-D name.
So now we have that and
And we can also change the area.
alias name which I was sort of alluding to before of.
if it helps us.
Invade the reader or the user what
we're actually looking at here. So here is
If we want to change the name of the name...
for our children.
If you need to alias for name, you can click.
right here and we can change this to Munnissa.
the polity.
So again, remember this is just a leaf.
It's not we're not changing the variable name or anything
this is just a label for context.
So now we can go through and save our
changes.
And now...
For municipalities, it should just have to be.
like we told it to, only the GI.
and the municipality name.
And you'll see here that we have the label that we created.
It's listed here so it makes it a little bit more useful.
are friendly. So now...
Now we can close the door.
field view. I believe that's the last thing we needed to manipulate.
here. Okay. And now,
Now if we want to sort our municipality
names we can
either. Remember, we can either right click or right click.
or double click it. I'm going to double click it because I right clicked last time.
and I typically like to just double click it because it saves
a little bit of time. So now we have all of
of our municipality names sorted in alphabetical order.
Now we can close the door.
our attribute table and
We are going to...
Go to the streetslayer.
So here we are going to
Right click streets.
And we're going to open the Atro
table.
So now...
Again, we're going to go to the FieldView, so remember we click on this little menu.
menu icon the three lines.
and we're gonna go to Fieldsview.
So now we're going to be doing this.
going to give full name right here.
a new alias. So full name is the string.
name so we're going to change this
to a more appropriate name.
So we're gonna click this and we're gonna change it to
to street name and a street name.
press enter. And now we've given full name,
variable a new alias and it's just screening.
And follow the book.
book here. Now we're going to keep this
visibility on only for the full name of the family.
variable the L from a.
LTO add FMR. Okay, so let's
do another uncheck all of these because we're
We're going to have more invisible than visible.
So we're going to keep the visibility on for full name.
We're going to keep the visibility on for
these four right here.
So the L from ad are from
and these RTO and LTO ads.
L and the R stand for left and right, by the way.
We're also going to keep the zip L and the zip R on.
So everything else can be turned off or maybe
invisible and we're going
to save these edits.
And,
Now we can close the field view.
Alright, and...
Let's make sure our attribute table is still over here.
And so we can see here that the only
Visible fields are street name and remember we
change the alias for it so it does say stream name here instead of
name although it does keep the app
variable name in the title here. You can see it says
parentheses full name just in case you forget.
in those different left and right variables that we--
kept in there. So we can see that our changes did say
and the attribute table updated accordingly.
Okay, let's see what's going on.
What's next?
Okay, so now...
So we can close out of this attribute table.
We're going to
to keep the municipalities on and on.
And we're going to turn on the FQHC clinics.
So remember that this is up here and we
see the FQHC clinics in the screen dots.
on our municipalities.
So now we're going to--
So right click.
attribute table.
And we are going to...
sort in a way.
sending order the name. So it looks like actually
So we already did that.
I was--
ahead of the curve on this one so I already sorted it. We can dump
check just to make sure so we can double click to make sure it's all in.
in ascending order.
And now we're--
going to select the first six rows.
So we can just drag to some
select the first six so you can either highlight
like this and drag until you get the
first six rows like that. Another option
is you can click the first one and then press shift.
and hit the sixth row and it'll highlight all of the
them again a personal preference.
I like to try to save as much time as possible.
but you don't have to if it's easier for you to work through.
it the other way. So now you can see here
The colors are kind of close, so I'm sorry if it's not super easy.
But the selected clinics that we chose.
are now shown in the same blue color that the
selection highlight is. And so the green one.
are the ones that are not selected and then the blue ones.
ones are the ones we have selected.
We can clear that selection.
Now.
And we can also...
Um, so.
See?
See?
See?
(humming)
So another option we can
employee.
is if we want to select different
features on the map and we don't want to look at it.
in drawing order, especially if--
If you work on projects in the future, there's a chance
And even now, there are a lot of different features here that
that we can select from.
So you might be scrolling a lot.
It might be hard to--
Find certain features that you want to add as layers on your map.
So right now we have it in drawing.
order we can also learn
List by selection, so let's see.
So up here we have different options.
So here it says list by drawing order.
List by data source, list by selection.
List by editing.
list by snapping, labeling, and
and then perspective imagery.
So you can choose any of these.
We are going to choose list by selection here.
And so you can see that it's a lot easier.
to kind of click through which things you want to add to the meds.
We want to only select...
Urgent Care and FQHC Order.
or if FQHC clinics so we can
deselect all of these?
So now we only have the urgent characteristics.
clinics and the FQHC clinics selected.
here in our list by selection.
So now we can go back to our
list by drawing order.
And when I see.
Just a little bit.
So go to...
the map tab.
Select and select.
then press select.
And if you hold down the shift key,
you can create.
a box and it'll select all of the
different clinics that you
highlighted that are included in that box.
So if we want to start over we can make it a smaller box.
with just those three, we can make it a larger box.
with all of them included. And so that's another
way if you want to select only Linux like in
in a certain area or
If you're doing like a state-by-state analysis, only some in a certain...
state you can do it this way if it's
Easy enough and it conforms to a square-ish shape.
So that's a big caveat there.
But let's see.
We can press shift and we can
You can also select individually each one.
let's press shift and select any.
of the five FQHCs.
So let's see if we can click this one.
This one, three.
or five. So now.
Now we have five selected that we kind of manually
gone through and selected and you'll see that they were selected.
down here in the attribute table as well.
And maybe--
you noticed when I was clicking through and making the square you also
those different selections being highlighted in the table.
people. Um,
We also can if you...
If it's easier to select those that you don't.
want to look at. So let's say I'm interested.
actually in the 14 that I didn't
select and it was easier for me to select.
5 than 14 for the selection.
can select these five and what I can do.
do is I can press swivel.
at the top. So this little
icon right here that has the switch selection.
Let's press that and now it's selected all.
All of the FQHC clinics.
previously were unselected.
So again, if you're going free.
and you're like, "I don't want to highlight 20--"
different ones that I want to select. You can see
search the ones that are not included in your selection.
and then switch it so that you can...
do it more efficiently.
Um, okay, I think.
That's all I need to show you in here.
So let's clear our
selection so remember this button up here when you clear our
selection and now we're going to
calculate summary statistics.
So if we have
All these data and we want to
get things like the minimum, maximum,
standard deviation, we can either
Upload it into our preferred statistical software and
try to get it that way or much easier and much easier.
quicker we can do it directly in our GIS.
So let me close out of this as well.
table I think we're done there for now.
So, for calculating the summary,
We're going to turn off the FQHC.
clinic layer and we're going to turn on the
layer we want to calculate summary statistics for.
So in this case, we want to calculate summary statistics.
for population density. So we're going to turn
that layer on and
And to get to the summary statistics, we're going to go in.
in this analysis tab at the top.
So click analysis and you'll
see here that we have a lot of different tools.
that we can use for analysis. So we're going to actually go to
the tools icon right here. It's a little tool.
blocks and we are going
going to not do the favorites. We're going to go to the
toolboxes tab at the top of this geo
processing panel or pain that's popped out.
So now you can really see how much you can do.
tools we actually have to analyze our data.
in GIS. So again, opportunity.
are limitless, but what we're going to do is
going to do is go to analysis
tools right here and we're going to click the arrow next to it to expand.
So analysis tools from the toolbox.
Then we're going to go to statistics.
the last option we're gonna expand that.
And finally we're gonna go to this summary section.
statistics right here. It has like a little hammer.
next to it, so we're going to click on summary statistics.
So for these...
input table that's the layer we want
to actually calculate our summary statistics for and
Remember, we're looking at population density for this.
So our input table will be...
our population density and it'll
automatically generate the output table for you.
It'll just be popular.
population densities of the name of the layer with statistics.
it. So for our field, our
statistics field, we want to look at the actual
population density. So remember the name
of our variable here is pop density.
our statistics type. The first one we'll do is
is our minimum.
If we're going to--
to do the minimum, we may as well calculate the maximum as well to get our
range. So again, we're gonna have to say
a pop density.
And that's an important note.
that you're gonna have to specify the variable name each.
time it's not going to like remember if you put popular
density here and then all of them listed right here.
You need
to make sure you specify the actual variable named
for each of these different rows.
Okay, so pop density and we have
maximum. And...
and let's also calculate the material.
means so we're going to designate pop density again.
and we're going to calculate the mean.
And we are going to put pop density.
one last time and we're going to do the standard D.
deviation.
So that all looks good and we can press right.
Run now?
And so summary statistics completed and GIS.
"Hey, s" does this where it have little pop-ups?
that say either like a little green check mark or it'll
have a big fat red crop.
so you'll know that you did something wrong.
So that's kind of how
that you can immediately get feedback and know that you need to.
either go back or you did it right.
So because it says that it ran or
it completed its run. We can see that it added that
standalone table of population density under
score statistics to our
So we can...
So, go right click.
and then press open so you notice it doesn't
attribute table because it is already a table so we don't need
to look at the attributes necessarily, we're just looking at it.
So we press open from the right click.
And you can see here we have the minimum.
population density which is zero.
Maximum, which is that 29,492.
point seven that we saw when we sorted in
descending order, the average or the mean
population density which is 4,560.
15 people per square mile and the
standard deviation for the population density, which is
huge as you can see it's 4,100
So we have a lot of variation in our population.
density here. And...
I believe that is the last thing we had to do for our
tutorial here so we can close out of this.
We are going to save.
our project.
and close it.
And...
As a reminder, for turning it in, we are going to
to zip those three different folders or files.
that we need for our submissions.
So we are going to
Let's see if it'll let me do it.
I was running low last night.
So the chapter one dot gdb
index, and then the tutorial three.
with our last name, remember we want the one that we're actually working on.
working with. And then once all three of those
are highlighted. We're going to right click, send to
and then compress zip folder again as
warning it might give me that error message again that
I'm not able to save due to space.
So
Let's see what happens.
Okay.
I did. And we can keep the tutorial one.
-3 frozen as the name.
And I'll
This zipped folder is what I will submit.
as my tutorial 1-3 assignment.
So as a reminder, submit your zip
folder and I'm gonna say it so many times you're gonna get very enough
annoyed hearing it, but I want it to be second nature.
here.
