Alright everyone, welcome to
tutorial 2-2. So this is label.
features and pop-ups and add
As always, before we do anything to our map here.
we're going to save project as with our last
name so we are going to do to
tutorial 2-2.
and just add our last name.
And then as always make sure it's dot.
a PRX for the file type and
and save. And so we should see the new
name up here the tutorial 2-2 with your last name.
Okay, so the first thing we need to do...
for this tutorial is zoom into the West Village bookmark.
So up here if you're not already on the map
Go to the map tab and then bookmark.
and we're going to zoom into
West Village here.
Okay.
Okay.
So, we're going to go ahead and do this.
So now in the contents...
pain, we're gonna click on zoning land use.
and don't double click or right click or anything.
literally just click it once over here.
And you'll see that three different options pop up at the
top. You'll see feature layer, labeling,
and data. And so for this,
we're going to click on the labeling tab.
and under field on the left side here.
on the label class tab or panel.
We are going to click.
Oh, no. Oh, God.
We're gonna click on the zone.
Okay, here we go.
So for the field, we're gonna put zone.
and to see.
See the zone names included on our map.
We're gonna press.
this label button to the far left it's really easy to forget to
to do this and wonder why your labels aren't showing up.
So make sure you click that label button.
And...
So we see now we have all of our labels and we're going to
change them just a little.
But these are the kind of default settings.
for the labels and we're going to customize them a little bit.
So, to customize we're going to go to the
this text symbol area right here.
And we're going to change the font size to a.
And we're going to change.
Change the color to gray 50%.
sense. I'm sorry. Here.
Great, 50%. So now there's...
still there they're just a little smaller and a little bit more muted.
so that we can still see what's going on underneath them.
And I think that's all we need to change for
those labels. So now we're going to
to zoom to the lower Manhattan bookmarks.
So we're going to zoom in.
zoom out just a little bit. So from here, remember,
go to the map tab at the top.
bookmarks, and then lowermen half.
All right.
So we're also going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be
to label the neighborhood's layer.
So remember we click on the neighborhoods.
And we go up to this labeling section after this.
at the top again, which will bring up all of
of these different options.
So for label,
class we are going to
And it keeps the field as name.
we can press the label button here just to
have them added and
for the annual notice. There's a lot of people who are interested in this.
a lag, so I apologize. But in my pop-up
faster for you. So we're
We're going to change the font type to aerial.
and we're then we're gonna bold it and
You'll see that there's no like bold option right here.
So what we're going to do is just if you click
this bottom right symbol, this text symbol, we can expand
it so we have a lot more options.
here now. So we're going to change it to
to Ariel.
Oh, it's a big burger.
me. It's an authentic order. So it shouldn't be too.
hard to find them. So we're going to change it to Ariel.
We're going to change it to bold.
I think we have to change the font sizes well to.
11 so we're going to make it a little bit bigger here.
And then we're going to put a white here.
low on it. So to do this if you scroll
down a little bit which is another reason I've been.
did the expanded text symbol option because--
because we had to go there anyway.
So if you see--
here, there's this halo option, so we're going to expand that.
And for Halo symbol, we're going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be
going to add a weight.
And let me see if we need to change anything else.
else we should not do. So now we can.
compress apply and apply.
And if your computer's like mine, it might lag just at
tiny bit but eventually we will see our changes.
There you go.
So now you can see that all of the--
text for the names is a lot more clear because
it has that halo so it's not just black.
It's actually, I think I said it has it's on the
little background in the lecture and I stand by that wording.
So, that's all we had to do for the new...
neighborhood labels. Let's see.
Oh shit.
Okay, D.
So I think...
But last thing we have to do for the Navy.
neighborhood late.
Label place. Oh change the placement
for the neighborhood level.
So for--
To change the label placement, we're going to go up at the top.
here where we see label placement style and just click on the
that. And for this tutorial,
we want it to be land parcel so it's just the
top right.
And then I think we are good for
for neighborhood labels.
So you can see now.
that they've moved a little bit.
Okay, so let's see, we're going to label it.
the water next. So we're going
click water and it shows
already be open to the labeling tab but if it's not
make sure you go to the labeling tab and
And for the label field, we're going to keep it as landing.
We're going to change the name.
the else versus click label first.
We're going to change the font size.
to times new Roman.
Go.
We're going to change the font.
size to 12.
And the color we're going to change it to at Lanting.
blue. So I believe that was down here. We did that
for our last tutorial. Yeah. So down here at the bar.
bottom this Atlantic blue.
and slowly but surely.
Now...
Now we have our labels for our different bodies and water here.
So you can see it.
that sometimes it
I will repeat the different layers.
names for some of these.
So if we right click watch
water and go to labeling.
properties?
Thanks.
Okay.
Okay, sorry, I'm recording from home right now.
and I have to pause the recording every time I can see that my cat
are about to start fighting. So I lost my train of thought a little bit.
But we are labeling the class for water so...
Remember right click water to bring up this pain right here.
And for the label,
properties we're gonna go check.
position right here.
And we are going...
to click conflict resolution symbol which is
is that the far right top.
So right here this button right here, we're going to place conflict.
resolution and you notice that mine doesn't actually show
repetitive names here, but the last time
I worked through this tutorial it did so you'll notice.
Notice that GIS is just a little silly.
sometimes in the way that things were
or don't work from time to time, we still love it.
but we do it has its quirks. So I'm going to
to show you how to do it in case yours has repeated repetitive lately.
here. Okay. So...
for the remove duplicate layer.
labels here, we're going to remove
move all?
And then if yours happens...
had repetitive features, it should no longer have repetitive features.
features and it should just be one label name for each body of water.
Okay, so we think
we can close out of this now.
So another--
Cool thing we can do is kind of manage our
pop-ups. So sometimes you turn off pop-ups.
for layers that aren't the subject of
interests like the zoning land use and the
water. And we can also consider
figure pop-ups for different layers like the neighborhoods.
so that these pop-ups will essentially
help to display specific data that
we wanted to show. So for this
we're going to right click on zoning land use.
and we're going to go to
disable pop-ups here and then
we're going to do the same for water. So right click water.
disable pop-ups.
And for neighborhoods instead of decisions.
the pop-ups we're going to configure our pop-ups.
So we're going to right click on neighborhoods.
and press this "configure pop-ups".
So, once that passes, you can see the difference between the two sides. So, once that passes,
pops up, you'll see this field's 37 right here.
So if you hover over it, you'll see this little
pencil and so click on that little pencil.
And it'll bring you to this configuring.
pop-ups editing page.
So if we uncheck this only use
visible fields button.
We will uncheck the data.
display for all of them here.
So now we only want to display a few different things.
here. We want to display the
Broname, so right here, Broname.
Pop so I think that's down.
here.
And we want pop, pop.
which is right under it.
pop 18 and under so also
right under it and then pop, pop, a
18 under that one. So those four are all together.
Let's see.
I think we should be able to close the camera.
can figure tab now, it should save all of our...
choices. So now you'll see that is
It says fields five instead of fields 37.
And if we click anywhere...
Here in the West Village we can see our pop-up to see.
see if it worked. So now you can see here.
It's only showing us the boroname.
the population, the population with.
that counts as impoverished, population that's 18 and
under and then the population 18 under that's impoverished.
as well. So we can manage that anyway we
want to so if you want to show certain things.
For certain layers, this is how you go about it.
And this is helpful if you're sharing an entire
project with someone and they want to see the breakdown by...
different neighborhood in this example or to
different county or census tract or state or whatever it is.
you're looking at. So these pop-ups can be very helpful.
and they're really overwhelming if you keep
every single thing in them, so it's nice to be able to cut
customize it a little bit.
That is the last thing we had to do for tutorial two two.
So we are going to save our project.
I feel like it's saving.
Okay, well, if I close, it'll ask.
me if I want to see it anyway. So I'll say yes.
And then...
And remember for the submission file.
for the tutorial 2-2.
You're going to combine the chapter two dot gdb.
press control at the index.
and then add the tutorial to
to with your last name file. And then you're going
to send to compress SIP folder.
and we can keep the same name so tutorial to.
with our last name and you're going to submit this zip for
as your submission for two-twos.
2.
