Alright everyone, welcome.
Welcome to the chapter 3 tutorials.
And these tutorials are kind of exciting, like I mentioned in the lecture.
just because we're doing more of the end of the video.
user pieces so we're seeing how to
to apply our maps instead of just in theory water maps.
So tutorial 3-1 is all about
building layouts and charts. So before
Before we do anything, we're going to, as usual,
save project as...
And we'll save it as tutorial three dash one.
with our last name.
.apurex
All right, so you'll see that change at the top.
And now we can start manipulating.
our maps. So you'll see here that we have
have two tabs here. We have the arts employment
per 1000 population and then just arts and
play.
the raw counts. So we saw those in the
So we're going to be working with these data.
And in the first tab, we're going to go to--
the insert tab up here.
And we're going to do new layout.
over here on the left side and we're going to
choose the first one which is letter eight and a half by a
11.
So now you see our layouts over here.
And in the catalog pane...
I'm going to close out of this.
I have lots of things open here.
In the catalog pane, you're going to expand the
this layouts selection.
And you're going to click this layout.
so that we can rename it and
we're going to name it see.
Arts, employment.
out.
All right.
So now on the insert tab.
We're going to also click this map frame button right.
here and we're going to
locate the employment per one.
thousand population so that's the section right here.
And we're going to use the default extent option.
So don't click this one.
Let's click the default extension.
And now we're going to just draw.
our map onto this layout. And to do that, we're going to
and just click and drag basically.
So we're going to just click here and
and drag it, and we're gonna put...
the two maps stacked on top of each other like we saw in an exercise.
as well so you just do like half the
page here and you'll see now we have our
on our new layout page.
And we are going to...
to do the same with the other maps. So let's
Let's insert map frame again.
And this time we're going to do the just arts employment.
And again, make sure you go to this default extent.
And we will just click.
Click and drag again to insert that.
Right below our first map.
And we're going to resize these maps to have
matching borders. So we're going
Right-click the top one.
and go to properties down here.
And it'll break.
Bring up this element pane right here and you're going to
click on the placement button and that's
That's this top right icon right here, so if we hover over it, you can see it.
placement so the top right one.
And we are going to
Type 5.5 from...
the width, I actually got it very close. I'm impressed with myself.
So 5.5 and then
For the height, we're gonna do three points.
So that'll automatically change it.
need to click apply or anything. And now we're going to
the same for the bottom map. So again, we'll do
just click on this and you can either right click or if you're already
opens the element paint, it'll just open over here.
So again, we'll type 5.5.
for the width and 3 points.
five for the height.
And let's see.
So I think that's it for the...
Oh my god.
paint for right now. So now we're going to click on this top map.
right here and go to
layout at the top.
So this layout.
tab up here and we're going to be doing this.
We're going to click full extent.
under the map tab. So remember that the
The full extent is just this little globe right here.
So we're going to--
click that and it'll zoom out a little bit so that it's in the
appropriate scale format.
And we'll do the same for the bottom maps.
just click on that and again up here we'll click this.
little full-extended globe icon.
So now let's try adding a...
like guides and stat maps.
And you can use guides to position the...
the objects in the layout so that they're evenly spaced.
or that we have some type of...
of outline to follow.
So one of the things you can use is rulers, which are very, very...
helpful and to do that will for
right click inside the white area of the layer.
out and you'll notice that the rulers are already on but to turn
Turn them on if they're not already.
Right click the white space.
of the layout and this will pop up just make
Make sure the rulers and guides are both turned on.
And they're already good to go, so we don't need to do anything there.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to
to create a guide at the vertical
ruler at five. So we're gonna
go here. So go up to five and
And once your arrow is on five,
you're going to right click it and press Add Guide.
And now we're going to do the same.
for vertical.
whole ruler nine.
So let's see.
up to nine up here. Right click it.
And you'll see they have these little
lines that they've now created on the on the
layout. And now we'll
do are horizontal.
Roller selections.
So let's see which one do we need to hear?
do 6.25 first.
where is that like here is
So right click right there.
It's make sure you're actually highlighting the thing.
Here.
Add guide and then
We need to do 6.5, so very close to that first.
one.
add guide and then add
eight. So go up here.
Right click, add guide.
So now we have all of our lines and all of our guides
that we can actually use to.
to place different pieces on this map.
And the first thing we need to do is
is drag the top map to the upper right.
hand corner at the intersection of the
no.
and the 6.25 guides.
So we're going to click on this and you'll see the little arrows.
pop up so let us know what's ready to drag.
So we're going to drag it to this.
upper right hand corner where the nine in the six.
6.25 intersect.
And we're going to do the same for the bottom map,
but now we're going to do five.
and 6.25.
So we'll just do upper right hand corner.
So now you can see--
how these guys can be helpful here.
And let's see.
Okay, so now we're gonna add legends and cut
customize those a bit.
Let's see on the insert tab at the
the top here. We're going to
go to the map surrounds.
section. So this little tab "tabber"
here, this map surrounds and we're going to
to click the legend arrow.
And you're going to click legend one.
This is the first.
one that pops up. And to please
you're just gonna drag a rectangle again.
just like we did with the maps when we were trying to place it and actually
I just realized, okay.
This is an important note, whichever map that you have selected.
when you click legend, that's the one it'll draw for.
So sorry if this is a little bit confusing, but this bottom
map is clicked right now and so I'm going to place it now.
to the bottom map and we're gonna just snap it to this little
rectangle that we've created. So go...
right we'll go like that.
little past it. So they're about the same size here.
So you'll see that it created the legend for our green or just--
just Arts Employment Rock Count map here.
So now we'll do the--
same for our top map. So again, it's highly
We'll go to legend.
and then we'll do the same thing.
we will draw in this little rectangle we've created again.
So, put it just.
all the way down to the bottom here. So now we've created
for both of our maps.
And let's see.
What are you doing?
I think that this is right now.
Okay.
No, so now we're going to customize the legend a little bit.
So we're going to right click.
on the top legend and we're going to be doing this.
go to properties. If you already had your if you
If you still had your element pane open and you just click on it, it will
automatically take you to the element pane, but if you close
it like I did, you can just right click go to properties.
and then it'll pop up again.
So for this, we're going to...
Let's see. We'll click on options.
which is the icon in the upper left hand corner.
So this one right here, it's very nice.
little icon and under let's.
legend items, which is you know, scroll down.
little bit legend items we're going to click show properties.
So this is where we can kind of customize it.
And what it is we're actually seeing on our legend in case
we need to add anything.
if we think that it's too cluttered and we want to remove something.
And so for this, we want to get rid of the layer.
name. So we're going to just uncheck
and notice that just goes away.
We don't need to click up.
apply anything. We'll do the same for the bottom legends.
So we'll click that and again, it'll just bring us right to this.
and for legend. I don't know.
items, show properties, and then again.
again, just uncheck layer name.
And you'll notice that--
disappear. So...
Now we'll insert text and we're going to title it.
each map, but not the layout itself.
So again, we're going to be on the insert tab in your.
You are probably already there.
And--
And under the graphics and text tab over here.
here to the right, we're going to click.
rectangle text. So this little A icon,
on the left, you're gonna just press this down arrow.
And it's the first icon that appears.
So this rectangle text.
And we're going to draw a title box.
starting above the left hand corner of the top.
map so we'll just go.
Like this and we'll just drag it all the way to that
end here. And we're gonna
Type arts is a good idea.
employment.
1000.
population.
We're going to press Enter and type.
annual.
average wages.
[sigh]
So once you've finished typing that, you're going to...
Right click on the text box.
and click properties again if you're not already
there again it did pop up but I'm gonna take you through it again.
again, just in case you get lost.
And we are going to...
go to text symbol at the top right here.
And we're going to change the font size to
12. So right now it's at this 10 point.
we're just going to increase it to 12.
and then click apply. So you see gets a little bit.
bigger there. And then we're going
them change the size of this text box.
just a tiny bit. So if we're
So I'm gonna go back to this text.
option here and...
And again, we're going to go to placements.
So remember, that's this.
right hand icon.
And for height, we're going to type.
0.45.
And you'll see that now it's kind of just the exact same.
exact length it needs to be for.
chosen text and so for a.
That's purpose is it.
Purpose is I'm going.
going to move this down a little bit so it's actually aligned with the
our map and...
And now we're going to insert text to the bottom half of the map.
So again, we'll go to this insert.
there in the graphics and text option.
we're going to click here.
And it'll show up in your recent or if you go just the--
text box. It'll be this rectangle text.
And now we'll insert our text box.
under the bottom left hand corner of our bottom map.
So down.
down here will.
And now we're going to do that.
we're just gonna type arts and florida.
- Climate.
and annual.
average.
But I can type wages.
Okay.
So now we're going to be doing this.
going to change the font size again. So once
here in the element pane and it's double clicked or...
wherever you need to go to get to this element.
again. We are going to click the text.
symbol again and...
Like we did with the top one, we will change the font size
from 10 to 12 include.
click apply and we're also going to go
So back to the text option.
we did with the last one, we'll change the height to zero.
.45.
And it's pretty much a line.
So we can just keep that there.
So now we have
have our titles for each of our maps.
And let's see, we can...
And now close the element.
pain here and if you
If you're not already, if you had to zoom in to type in any of the time.
text your change of legends.
Make sure you zoom out again so you can.
see everything like this is shown right here.
And let's see.
see. If you're not already open to it, the catalogs
pain, it should still have the layouts option.
And you'll see that arts employment layout.
So what we're going to do is we're going to do a little bit of a
going to do is we're going to right click on the
start employment layout and click export.
file and this
I don't remember what this defaults to.
I've changed this to
JPEG. So we're going to make this a JPEG.
the file type, we don't need to change.
where the file is saved to.
And then the only other thing you're going to do is make a difference.
make sure that this color depth is this twerly.
24-bit true color.
So if all of that is good, you can just press export.
And I did this earlier, so let me over.
All over it. You should not pop up like that.
Right, so now we can see over here that.
the export is completed.
And let's see.
Now we're going to go to the Arts and Plan maps of the second.
tab right here to bring out
to this map. And in the contents pane, we're going to
going to click the employment layer. So we'll just click the
employment layer.
And on the data tab...
in the visualize section.
Let's see if this let's go.
data. I'm going to see visualize right here.
the far right side. I'm going to click that.
You're gonna press create chart.
And then I believe the first one we're going to do is a bar chart.
So let's click this bar chart's the first option.
So now this chart properties page.
pop up over here.
and the category or date.
that you see right here, we're going to select name, which
is the name of the states. So you'll see
those pop up down here. And for aggregation,
we're going to select "No".
done. Okay.
Okay, let's see.
For the numeric fields, we're gonna press this little
plus sign with the select and we're going
going to select.
to select employment arts, the third one down.
and apply.
And then for sort, we're going to change it to...
y-axis descending. So the slide
right here, Y axis descending. So now it'll sort.
them by value.
And on the top of this property,
pain, we're gonna go to the general option. So if it's not
expanded like mine you can't see it you can just press these three
dots and it'll give you all of the options. So we're going to go
to general and we're going to change
some of these like the chart type
and the x and y-axis titles.
for our chart title, we're gonna go employ...
We're gonna go.
Arts, employment, and so forth.
for.
the top.
10 states.
for the x-axis.
title, we're going to change it just to state.
And for the Y-axis title,
So we're going to keep it as employment.
So just delete this.
arts right here.
And you'll notice...
You don't have to like apply or done or anything.
It'll just automatically--
imply those or apply those.
And you'll notice that we
Called it the arts employment for the top 10 states, so we're going to.
change the chart a little bit to make that true because right now we're
We just have all of the states.
But first we are gonna.
reformat these bars a little. So on the top
of the chart properties pane,
we're gonna go to
series. So again, if it's not showing up for you in
in these options up here, just right, just click.
this little three dot button and we're gonna go to series
and we're going to click
Click the symbol button right here.
And for the color, we're just gonna change it to...
red and you can, I'm not going to be picky about
what shade of red you choose, I kind of like slightly
darker red here. I think it's a little bit easier on the eyes.
and to adjust the size of the map.
pain so that the bars are a little bit.
higher and we can see what we're doing. You can just wait until this
these two, this double sided arrow pops up and you can
just drag it up. So now we can see what's happening.
in them.
Now to actually
reduce the number of bars so that only the top
10 are showing and our map is accurate. We're gonna just try.
Draw a rectangle around the first 10 bars.
So let's count out one two
three four five six
6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
So right here, so we're gonna go California to
Massachusetts. So we just draw a little bar here.
here. And you'll see that they've they're
now highlighted because they've been selected.
So hopefully that looks--
familiar from our chapter one.
I don't remember when we did that.
Then we select something, we can see them selected up here.
map as well as down here.
And now once we have those...
selected we're going to go to this filter.
up here and it's just the first one. This filter
by selection. So we're going to click that and now we're going to
only our top... wait one, two, three, four.
5 6 7 8 9 10 oops
I did too many.
See ya.
Let me go back here.
if you don't mess it up like me.
You'll get
Oh my gosh.
I'm gonna do this one by one.
because I can't.
Okay.
I'm sorry you're watching this.
happen.
Okay, I think now I'm
got it. So I'm going to filter by selection. There we go. Now
I only have 10. I'm sorry you had to see that shit.
of mine. Okay.
Um, at the top of the...
We're also going to select export.
So up here, this little...
Um, bar chart right here. This will export.
we're going to export to file and we're going to
to export it as a graphic.
And we're going to save it to our resources.
folder. So we still go to this tutorials. But
And now we're going to save it to resources.
And we are going to name it...
top, top, top, top.
10 states.
And we'll save it as a JPEG as well.
So we can just...
press. Actually let's get rid of this.
spaces here.
And then we'll press save.
So if you click on the button, you can click on the button.
I can't employ me again, maybe it's already chosen.
We can go to...
data again and we can create another chart.
we're going to make a scatter plot now. So again, we're going to
press visualize, create chart.
And then we're gonna go to scatter plot.
And you'll notice that our other bar chart that we've got
made is still here. We're just making another tab basically.
And for this...
we are going to make the X-axis.
population, so go here and change the
this two population and our Y.
The number of people in the arts.
which is this employment arts variable.
click that and this just shows you
that as the population for each state increases.
So does the number of people who are
employed in the arts, which is sort of what I was hearing.
to add during the lecture of, you know,
When we were seeing that some of the states with
high rates or sorry, not low rates.
per 1000 population in the arts had really high rock.
counts or raw numbers. That's what this
hinting out is that it's very heavily swayed by the eye.
population that we're looking at.
And I believe that is it for tutorial three ones.
So we're going to now save our project.
We'll save our project here.
can close out of it.
So now...
to submit, like usual, we're gonna go
to our GIS T for Pro for itful.
I'm going to chapter three.
tutorials and now
Now we are going to create
a folder with chapter three dot gd.
index and then tutorial.
three dash one with your last name.
Right click, send to...
compressed zipped folder.
And then we can keep that near.
And then the zip folder is what you'll submit.
credit for tutorial 3-1.
