All right everyone welcome to the
chapter four tutorials.
for these tutorials for this chapter.
I posted an announcement about it as well.
but please remember that you don't have to submit these.
for credit. This is purely meant as a
practice for you but for 4-9.
one if you're choosing to play along.
It's importing data into a new ArcGIS.
Pro project. So in this tutorial we're not
not going to start with an actual pre-made mask.
from RGIST for Pro 5.
folder. We're actually going to
go here in N2.
Alrighty, I'm sorry, but we're going to open our gym.
pro directly?
And...
And under this new project right here,
we're gonna click on.
map and...
And for the name, we are going to be
to name it youth population.
I believe.
And then for our
location we are going to...
put it in our GIS
for pro as repress.
And chapter four.
And then I think we just save it right now.
into chapter four here and press okay.
All right, so now you can see we just have a generic.
map of the... really of...
North America. So...
So under the project tab over here,
we're going to click options.
And you can see here that when we...
we created this new map and named it youth population.
It has our location home folder.
It also creates
a geo database and toolbox for
our new Geo database that we're working with.
that's called youth population.
So we have all of--
that and it's going to be in the chapter four slide.
youth population folder. So every
new feature class table or file
that we create is going to be saved by default to this.
new projects file geo database.
Okay, so I'm going to go back to the next slide. So, I'm going to go back to the next slide.
Under the project tab, this part I guess
is not necessarily required since your
not going to submit it but if you
want to just stay consistent and have this at least.
so that you can reopen it whenever.
Okay. So...
Let's save it under this tooth.
population what we're going to name it.
tutorial for one
with our last name still.
and save.
Alright, so now we're still working that way.
youth population database but now it has the
tutorial 4-1. Rosen up here.
She's inconsistent with what we've done previously.
in the semester. Okay.
So now we're going to set up a folder connection.
So...
it is sometimes useful to connect another folder.
for easy access. So we're going to
connect to the Maricopa County.
And I'm going to get rid of some biology here.
So we're going to open the catalog pane if yours isn't open.
We're going to expand folders.
And we're going to click.
the add folder connection. We're going to write it.
Right click, folders here.
Add folder connection.
action.
More.
We are going to, it may already open for you here.
We're going to go to that JST for pro chapter four.
data and we're going to click
like Maricopa County so that it appears
right here and then just press OK.
So don't--
If you want to open anything in Maricopa County, just click the folder itself.
press OK.
And you should see that it--
appears here now under our folders.
Let's expand.
our Maricopa County folder. So now we have all the
we have Maricopa County shape folders.
municipalities, tracks, pop youth.
And then if you want to see what's in here, we just have
have our youth population GDP that we created.
Okay. So now we're going to
Convert a shape file to a feature class.
And a shape file is just a
spatial data format for a single.
layer on the map, so point, line, or polygon.
And you're going to notice if you don't...
Download files from like the Census Bureau.
Like for the tiger files that we talked about and during the lecture
they're probably going to be in shape by
format so it's still very commonly used but be
because they don't support more advice.
advanced capabilities and there you have to add a little bit more.
context on the back end to have them actually be usable.
really we should be
converting to a feature class and storing it as a geo.
database so then we can just read in the entire geo database.
and we can start from there.
So it kind of saves us a few steps on the back.
back in. So on the end.
analysis tab. And...
in the geo process.
So right over here, we're going to click.
tools and we are going
to search for...
the x-ray.
Export features.
if I can spell.
going to click on export features here.
And we're going to convert our shape file to a feature class.
as I mentioned, so for input features.
We're gonna click the browse button.
We're going to expand folders over here on the left side.
we're going to click Maricopa County.
And we're...
are going to click municipality.
and our output feature class.
Last we're going to name it...
cities?
And
then run the tool.
So now we have our...
Our cities was shapefile, but now it's just a
feature class so it's more permanent, we can store it in our geodata.
base. We are also going to do this for
tracks.
I believe.
I might be leading you astray. I'm gonna do it because try
Okay. So...
up here. We're going to go back here for input features.
we're going to put tracks.s.s.
and one.
name this one "Tracks".
And then we'll run that.
Okay, so now I have cities and tracks on our map.
Okay.
And I'll show you that it should be...
saved in our youth population GDP.
So yep, we have now cities and tracks in our
youth population geo database.
Okay.
We're also going to import a table into our file.
geodatabase. So we're going to import a data table.
from the American Community Survey or ACS.
which is in CSV format.
And so remember for these data,
tables, the vertical columns have the attribute names in each order.
horizontal rope represents a census tract.
So we're going to go to...
tools again and we're going to search for
export table. So instead of features, we're going to
to export. Table,
And our input table is going to be...
and pop youth from the community.
the Maricopa County folder so that should already be open.
but if it's not, it's the Maricopa County under chapter four.
more data, and we'll press OK there.
and our output table name should just be.
be pop use.
And so let's run that tool.
Now you can see the size of the tree.
that it's on the contents pane and if we want to be
really sure we can see.
See?
pop youth right there. So it's also in our gym.
database.
Okay, so we can all...
Also
Use database utilities in the catalog.
So we can create, copy, rename, and delete.
file, geo databases, and anything else.
in the catalog pane. So if you want
want to make a copy of your data as a backup or if you
want to share your geodatabase.
You'll--
Create a new file geo database.
copy spatial data to it and rename the feature classes.
and table, and we can also delete a future class in the file.
to your database.
So I'm going to show all of the things I just said.
at you really fast. So in the catalog
pane, we're going to right click databases.
and click new file geodeo.com.
database for the name
we are going to type.
Caracopa Choo Choo.
traps and...
Click Save.
So now we see americopo tracks dot gdb.
And in the database
folder we're going to expand the youth population.
So right here, the number we have cities.
tracks and then that pop youth table.
and we're going to right click the cities feature.
class and we are going to
click copy and then we're going to
click on our Maricopa tracks.gdb.
Right click it and then paste.
So now we see that the cities is in our
new Maricopa Tracks Geo database that we've created.
So if you want to share...
kind of pieces of your geo database with someone,
but not just the other one.
the entire thing, this is kind of how you would go about it.
We will do the same with the part of the video.
top use table, so we're going to right click the pop use.
and copy.
And then we'll click on Maricopa Tracks G.
database and press paste again.
Great.
And this didn't come up as an issue.
for mine right here, but sometimes you'll notice that
once you add things to your geo database,
and this is another.
quirk form GIS sometimes it
won't pop up right away so what you can do if
that happens is you can right click the track that you just made changes.
to or the geo database that you just made changes to and
press this refresh button.
So ours already
in there, but if you ran the command and it didn't
do anything, press the refresh and it should show up.
Okay.
So in the Maricopa Tracks Geo Data B-
And so, I'm going to click on the database.
Now I'm going to right click pop youth.
and click rename.
And we are going to read.
name it your true.
Racks pop youth.
And you'll notice that it changed the name down here in our
CopaTrex Geo database, but not in our original user.
population, geo database, which is important.
Okay.
So now let's say we don't want to.
include our Tracks Future class.
So we can just--
deleted from the Maricopa Tracks Geo database.
So let's say again I'm preparing a geo-
database to be sent to someone for their use.
but I decide actually they don't need access to this.
one table or this one layer.
So what you can just do is, we have to.
which one I was supposed to be deleting, so let me...
Double check that. Okay, tracks.
Mmm.
It's around.
Right click this and then we're just gonna press.
And...
That's kind of a scary warning.
It says, are you sure you want to permanently delete it?
They just mean from that geo database.
So you'll notice that.
It didn't disappear from our youth population.
geodatabase it just was deleted from our merit coefficient.
So don't get scared if it says, are you sure you want to?
permanently delete it. It just means from that specific.
geodatabase. Okay.
And now let's suppose...
that actually we want
to delete the entire Maricopa tracks geodata.
we decide that we don't want to send it to any people.
We're fine with just having our youth population geo database.
So what we can do is we can right click.
the Geo database link directly.
and press
Delete.
And it'll ask us for sure.
We'll say yes.
And so now that entire Geo database and everything
in it is gone.
Again, it's not gone from our original GOD.
base just this new one we've created.
Something...
important to mention though because I'm saying how non-p--
permanent is if we delete it from our original
youth population geodatabase, like if I were to decide to
delete this tracks feature class.
From our Geo database, it is gone permanently.
So if I remove things from the map
for example, like if I decide to remove track...
I'm not going to because I need it later. But if I decide to
to press remove here.
So if I appear in pressure remove.
It doesn't delete it from my geodatabase.
It just removes it from the map.
So I can at any point.
We added to the map from my Geo database.
But remember that do not delete things from your original.
original geo database unless you're sure you don't.
need them anymore. Otherwise you have to
Re-download them and re-add it in the whole thing.
Um, okay. And I think this is actually it for tutorial 4-
one so we can save our price.
object here.
And unlike the other one...
ones, do not close it from here because we're going to pick
right back up from this map for our tutorial.
dash two and remember that you
don't need to do the compressed zip folder.
because we're not actually uploading in.
If you...
Really want me to double check if it's right, you can send me.
to me directly, but you don't need to.
if you are just doing this for practice, don't worry about it.
But this is the
end of 4-1.
