Okay, so one.
Once you have tutorial 25 open.
This is displaying data using Gradual.
and proportional point symbols.
So we are going to start by saving projects.
as we're going to go.
tutorial two five
And we're going to add our last name.
.aprx.
Okay, so the first one.
we're going to do is in the first neighborhoods.
you'll notice there's two of them.
In the first neighborhood's layup.
We're gonna rename that to number of food banks
slash soup kitchens. So click here.
I'm going to highlight this.
of food bangs.
Super kitchen.
And, ah.
Okay. If you can.
do it without typos, unlike me.
Perfect.
All right, so now we're going to highlight the new new.
variable and we're gonna go to
to the feature layer up here.
And we're going to go to symbolic.
and we're gonna go to...
to graduated.
symbols. So we're here.
And for our field
Remember we don't want to do object ID that doesn't really give us any information.
information ever. So as a general point, you never want to
this to be object ID.
So for field, we're going to change it to food.
underscore FASIL, food facility.
For method, we are going to
to choose quantile.
And we can play around with it a little bit if you want.
go ahead and change this to different.
find interval just to see how things change.
Um, Ellen.
Let's see, let's go to the...
template symbol.
right here.
We're going to choose circle three.
And then for colors, we don't want to
to be red we want it to be yellow and so we're going to change it
to solar yellow. Keep clicking on that one.
And I believe that's one of these two.
Okay, yeah, so this third
row right here, solar yellow.
And I don't think we have to change the size or anything.
anything so let's change this.
Okay.
So now we're going to hit the back button to get back on this.
symbology pain.
And we're going to rename the second.
neighborhood's layer to under 18.
receiving food stamps. So this second neighborhood
layer right here. We're going to
rename that to
under 18.
We're receiving.
stamps.
So now you'll see we have an over age 60 receiving foods.
and in under 18 receiving food stamps.
And we're going to go to the
feature layer for this and we're gonna go to symbology.
it seems like it's already on there, but we'll go there anyway.
And we're going to use proportional.
symbols.
And that's outrageous looking.
So we're going to fix this.
that obviously. So the
field here is not going to be
be object ID, remember, it's gonna be
U18_food right here.
And
And for our minimum size right here,
we're gonna do
two.
And let's see.
For our Maximsize, we're going to check this on.
And for our maximum size, we are going to...
to change this to 20.
That looks much better.
Okay.
Let's see for our...
And we're going to change the
color for our
little symbols to
purple. So it looks a little weird right here but you see this
template right here. I don't know if it'll look like that for you. But...
It's like in the background text right now.
So once it's blue and highlighted, you can click on that.
for color we're gonna make it any color.
Any purple we is that speaking us. I like this.
slightly darker purple the dark and
with this.
and we make sure I don't need to change anything else.
So press apply here.
And now we have purple dots with yellow.
So remember,
Remember our contrasting color rule that we learned about
in lecture we're using colors on the opposite side of
the color wheel to show a little contrast here.
So now we're going to show, or we're going to study.
the relationship of food banks and soup kitchens.
and persons over 16 under 18 receiving from the hospital.
food stamps in one map. And so we're going to do that by
looking at the Bronx and Brooklyn, but
So to get to, we'll start with the bra.
Make sure you go up to this top map tab.
Bookmarks, and a little bit.
start with the Bronx. So here you can see
the relationship between those who are un-
under 18 receiving food stamps in the purple color.
the purple circles. So the bigger the circle,
the higher proportion or the higher number of people.
We can see the over age 60 receiving
food stamps by the color of the
the actual polygons in the background.
So.
The dark blue colors are...
higher numbers of people who are over age of 60 receiving
food stamps and then the yellow
Hello, circles are telling us how many food facilities
are in each of these areas.
So again,
bigger the circle, the higher the number of food.
facilities and so you can see that they
You correspond pretty well, at least in the Bronx.
here so we're seeing that the larger yellow circles
in the larger purple circles are corresponding with.
the darker blue color so the higher
the number of people who are receiving food stamps, either you.
or those who are over the age of 60.
That's where we've been focusing our food facilities.
which is what we want to see, right?
The higher the demand,
higher the number should be.
can look at that in Brooklyn as well.
Well, make sure you got a bookmarks.
and go to Brooklyn and we
We can see that we're still seeing a pretty bit out there.
At least qualitatively, we're not actually assessing anything.
We're not--
measuring associations in a statistical way.
right now we're just kind of looking at it and eyeballing it.
But we...
We can see that the circle's size is...
and the colors correspond relatively well.
with one another, which is what we would hope to see.
Okay, so there we go.
are going to zoom to full extent. So remember, that's this
little globe button right here.
And consumer.
tiny little bit I guess just so we can see that.
circles a little better. And then that
That is the end of 2.5 tutorials, so now we are going to
save our project.
Close it.
And then we're going to combine our five.
like always. So chapter two.
dot gdb index.
and then tutorial 2-5 with our last name.
name, right click, send to
compress, zipped folder, and then you're going to submit.
that zip folder for the tutorial to...
or two five submission for.
credit.
