Okay, welcome to tutorial.
two six. We're going to be normalizing
population maps with custom scales.
So we are going to start by saving
project as...
two six.
And we're gonna add our last name.
.aprx.
Okay.
So this map shows New York City's neighborhoods.
And we want to first symbolize the female head.
and the headed household receiving food stamps using food stamps.
these different settings at our disposal. So we're going to
going to select the feature class for female.
headed households.
Um, and you can either do symbol,
through the top you can just click it and it should you
show up to the symbology.
I--
There are a lot of different ways to get to this pain whichever way.
works for you is totally fine with me. You can just click it and it shows you.
pop up with symbology though. So
for the primary symbology.
we're going to choose Graduated Colors.
and for our
field we are going to change this to your
U18_
Oh wait no. U18.
F-F-H-F-H-A.
food.
Okay. And for normalization.
we are going to choose
Total households with this TOT are...
underscore h h.
For method, we are going to choose quant.
tiles and we'll keep it at 5
classes. For our color we're going to choose a
grade five classes. Remember that we need to show them
names here so that we know that we're choosing the correct one.
and...
Great five classes is closer to the bottom here.
And this normal.
Normalization right here is just saying that we want to
divide the...
a number of people who are 18 or under.
who are receiving food stamps.
female headed households receiving food stamps specifically.
we want to divide that number by the total number.
number of households. So we're basically getting a percent.
a percent of households that are receiving food stamps.
or percent of female head hassled that are seem
and I'm going to be doing some of the good stamps. And...
So we are going to... now we have that.
and we are going
to show these as persons.
percentages rather than these
decimals because they're a little bit easier to understand.
with their in percentage form. So to do that,
we are going to go at the top here to this advanced center.
and then the top-right option.
and
And we are going to go to...
expand format labels for cataclysmic.com.
category, we're going to put percentage.
And then for this person,
We're going to say number represents a number of numbers.
a fraction because right now it thinks that our
proportions in decimal format.
We're already multiplied by 100 and turned into percentages.
and so they're very very low. So number of
represents a fraction, so now those are fixed.
There, and for decimal places, we're going to go ahead and just put...
zero here we're going to have them rounded upper down.
based on their actual percentage points because
because we don't.
It's just a lot cleaner this way.
Okay.
So for this, we are going to go back.
to the primary symbology button.
And our tab really.
And for...
This we are going to change the method to...
to manual interval.
So from quantizer to manual interval,
to manual interval.
And then...
Then we're gonna, let's see.
We're on the classes tab so we can see that
that we're already there.
We're gonna double click the other.
upper value for this first one.
And we're going to change it to zero.
0.02.
And you can see here that they didn't convert.
to percentages in the actual like,
or value column, it is changed in the labor.
we'll call them though.
So this is 2%.
upper value for the second we're going to do 0.04.
or 4% or the third one.
We're going to do 0.08.
Fourth, we're going to zero point.
16.
So you see where like kind of doubling it each way.
time. So the maximum value that we actually
actually have is 26%.
This 25.8 if we're looking at the raw number.
So we can't do 32 to follow our pattern.
So we're just going to.
make this the maximum value, which is 26.
So now we can click on our history.
Instagram. Sorry, let me press enter. Now can
look at our histogram tab to see the split now that we've
changed it. And.
You can see here that there aren't quite as many
people in the point zero two or low
lower or really 0.04. But once
we increase the size of our...
upper limit, we're seeing more in the
those categories.
So now we're going to take a look at the male hair.
households receiving food stamps. So we are going.
to click on mail-headed households.
And we're actually going to...
Port symbology from another layer because we don't want to
redo all of the work we just did.
So we're going to go to feature layer.
up at the top.
And then under this drawing tab right here.
This button, this import button, we're going to click.
on that. And,
And the input layer is going to stay the same.
So it's going to be the male head.
households receiving food stamps and
And we're actually going to import symbology from a new
another layer.
So, let's see.
This symbology layer you can see.
equals female headed household.
receiving food stamps for type
It should be value field. You don't need to change.
change that for source field, it should be
U18 FHH food so that female food is not a good food.
a head household food variable we had the turd.
Target field is U.A.
M-H-H food, so we're gonna change it.
that because we want it to be the male headed house
holds food.
See for type it should be normalization for
field and both source and
target field should be total underscore hh.
So the only thing you should really have to change is this symbolic
layer up here and the target field.
And so let's put it in.
like apply.
And then we can press OK to exit.
So now you can see that for the male head, male headed head.
households food. We have the exact same category.
that we did with the female headed households.
So again, that saves us a little bit of work there.
And on the contents pane,
You can click the female headed house.
and click on the button.
feature layer so it's already on the feature layer for me.
and click swipe to...
compare the different layers.
So up here in this compare tab right here.
You see this little icon is a swipe.
I'm gonna press that button and then you'll see.
See that our arrow now turns into this little like upset.
down triangle. So what you can do...
is you can click anywhere on the map.
So, let's go.
click from the top and you can drag it down.
so that you can see the female headed house.
households versus the male, male headed households.
exactly the same without turning the layers.
without having to turn the layers on and off to try to compare.
So you can see exactly what we're looking at.
in real time here. So for male headed house
holds receiving food stamps, you can see that.
actually none of them reached that.
17 to 26% category. It's all.
basically white or a little.
little bit of light gray in like two areas of
dark gray, whereas for female headed households we're seeing a
lot of black, dark gray.
lighter grays, but that's how you can compare
them directly. So this is a cool tool.
if you want to compare two areas without having to like
flip back and forth and try to remember what
what each of the areas looked like.
So if we want to deactivate this.
swipe so if we're done looking at the swipe we can
go to...
Map tab.
and press the explore button.
And then now we have our little cursor back.
again. And I think that is
last thing we had to do for tutorial 26 so we will go ahead.
and save the project.
And close it.
And I know
you're probably sick of me explaining this but...
In case you are ever lost, we will combine the chapter 2.
gdb the index
and the tutorial.
2-6 with our last name.
Once all of those are highlighted, we will right click.
Send to compressed zipped.
folder, and then we will keep the name as
tutorial 26 with your last name for the zip folder.
and you will upload that zip folder for the two six.
tutorial.
