Alright everyone, welcome back to...
tutorial 2.1. Visit chapter 2.1.
tutorials. So, chapter 2. So, chapter 3.
one we focus more on just getting comfortable with.
GIS so now we're gonna play around with it a little bit more and
in terms of like symbolizing maps.
And I started sharing the screen.
after my project had already loaded because I'm on my Mac.
today and it takes a really long time for to load on my Mac.
But to get here, remember we just go to our...
GIS folder, and then we go to chapter
tutorials and you can just click to open
open it and as a heads up
you might have to sign back into your
ArcGIS. So remember that for that.
you'll go to the online organization.
Organization URL and you'll just type in C.
and it'll take you to your single sign.
on pop up window and you can just sign on through
there. So once you have
the project open, we are going to
start by saving the project as with our
last name. So remember we'll go here, say
project as and then we can keep
Keep it in the same tutorials folder like we did last time.
So I'll just do tutorial 2-
one and then add your last name here.
So, @mylin, my last name, and then...
and make sure it's .aprx as the folder.
or as the file type and then you just press.
safe. All right.
All right, so once we're here and we've saved,
We're going to
First, actually let me orient.
this map first. So this is the New York City Zone.
and land use map and you might recognize
is at least the format of it from our lecture.
slides. So the different layers that we have
for the map. We have neighborhoods, the zoning land use itself.
and then the world like gray canvas base.
So the first thing we're going to do is zoom.
to the lower Manhattan bookmark.
Remember for that we go up here under the map tab.
press both marks and then we'll just click lower men.
So it'll zoom us in a little bit closer.
The next thing...
we are going to do is we're gonna show
Change the neighborhood symbol to be transparent.
So it provides the outline of the name.
neighborhoods, but not necessarily these big blocks of white.
that are all over our map.
So to do that, we're going to
to click on the little neighborhoods box right here.
so that we get to symbology.
And then we are going to click on it.
properties. For color we're going to
choose no color and then
for our outline color instead of black we're going to do
grey 60% which should be right.
Cheer.
Here.
Okay.
Okay, gray 60 and then press up
So now you can see we still have the outline of
of those different neighborhoods,
but now we can see what's going on under--
need them. So we can
Now close the symbology pane.
The next thing we're gonna do is give the water.
in actual blue color so that it's made
make sense for us and provides more context.
So first,
Next we have to turn on our water layer.
And now we're going to give it a blue color so we can...
can click on the water again to get to that symbology pane.
for color.
We can.
Actually, we can go to the gallery because they have a
color for water already. So go down and you'll see the
this water area, so you can just click on that.
And it'll turn the water blue for us easy peasy
and so it can close out of the symbology now.
So the last.
thing we're gonna do, this is a short tutorial,
and actually I meant it.
mentioned that in the beginning you'll notice
Notice that there are eight tutorials for chapter two, which says,
sounds really intimidating, but I want to assure you that they're much shorter.
order than the chapter one tutorials. So they take
about half the time if that so it won't be
a lot more work to get through these tutorials. So if you're getting nervous...
I promise it's not going to be like a huge heavy lift.
Okay. So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to do a little bit of this.
is display polygons using the unique value set.
symbol. So first we have to turn on
the zoning land use layers which turned that on.
and we're going to write
Click the Zoning Land Use.
and press on or click on
symbology.
So
For once we're at this primary symbology paint.
we are going to under pressure.
your symbology will click on unique value.
values here and for our
field, we want to click land you
use two. So make sure you do land use two.
It's a collapsed version of land use one.
So there are fewer--
categories. So click land use to.
And you'll see that the categories that pop up are
the same categories we saw in the lecture slides. So come
commercial manufacturing, park residential,
residential LT-MFG and then waterfront.
So what we want to do here is
here is we want to change
these colors to match what we saw in the lecture slides.
So the first thing we're going to do is
going to do is you're going to go to this top right corner where it says
more and you are
going to press on format all symbols.
walls.
So once we're here...
We are going to go to properties.
And we're going to change the outline color to gray.
20%. So this outline
color right here. We're gonna do gray 20.
Here, and then press.
apply. So now we can actually see
a little bit more of what's happening in the...
map itself we can see the actual lines that are
distinguishing each area.
So now we can...
go back to the pain with all of these siblings.
here, the primary symbology pane.
And we are going to change the colors of each
of these different categories of land you
Remember, in the lecture I specifically talked about the lecture.
about when colors are too bright. It kind of...
hurts our eyes. So you can get a little bit of a sense here.
It's not super super bright, but it is still kind of a...
pain to look at. So we are going to
change these two more pastel colors.
So the first one we'll do is commercially.
and we're going to change it to rose
courts, which is the first row second column.
So you can do this two different ways.
So the first way is you can actually click on the symbol
itself and it'll bring you to this
this other symbology paint.
and click here and we said first row
second column so it should be this one.
Click Rose Quartz and apply.
And then we press back to get back to the paint.
So you can.
Either do it that way, which is a little bit longer.
longer or you can just write
click it from the actual symbol.
So if you hover over here and write.
it'll just pop up so you don't have to keep going back.
So I typically prefer to do this one.
So for manufacturing, we're going to change it to a lilac color.
So it's first row 11th column.
So first row, two, three, four.
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
effect.
For park we are going to change it to
Apple Dust. So that's seventh.
row six columns. So let's go here.
One, two, three, four.
five six seven and then to play around here.
Okay perfect right here, Apple Dust.
Let's see which one's next.
residential, we're going to change it to yellow. So that's
first row fifth column.
First comb.
So here.
Yuka Yellow, perfect.
Let's see, for residential LTP.
MFG were doing soapstone dust.
So that's seventh row, third column.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
So much.
just don't check perfect and then for
The last one, we will do waterfront in
Atlantic Blue, which is 9th row 9th column.
So, let me see. We're in two.
three four five six seven
So it's probably around here.
Atlantic blue. So now we have all of
of our different land use.
parcels colored appropriately so you'll see that it
looks like what it did in the lecture.
And this is actually all we have to do for tutorial two one.
So what we're going to do is we are going to save our
our project and we can close.
Is it? Yep. Good thing. Yes.
Let's save it.
So now, remember that we knew that.
to make a zipped file to sub...
for our tutorial for credit.
three different files that we need to have.
or the chapter 2.gdb and the
then press, oops, press.
control to add index.
And then we're going to add the last five.
is that tutorial 2-1 with your last name.
And then you'll right click.
send to compressed.
zip folder and I actually don't know if I'm going to have storage.
to do this. So as a heads up, I might get an error message, but
Let's see if it'll let me.
Perfect, it did.
We can save it tutorial 21 with our last name.
And then this zip folder is all you need to submit.
for tutorial 2-1.
