Okay, welcome to
tutorial 4-2 and this tutorial will
will be modifying attribute tables.
And as I mentioned in the last tutorial,
we should be starting with the map.
that we just created in our tutorial 4-1.
and we will save the project again.
you can skip this step if you do not care.
about looking back at your work.
I will save it just because...
and I think I want to take
in the same folder because I don't feel like looking for the end.
other ones. So 4-2.
Thank you. Roseanne.
name and then we'll save it.
Okay, so the first thing is...
What I will do is we'll learn how to delete any
unneeded columns. So a lot of
times for future classes you'll have a lot of extra
or unnecessary attributes that you can delete for some
and I think that you had to do this on your home
work too. So this should be more review than anything else.
But in the contents pane we're going to write
Right click our tracks layer that we should still have here.
and we are going to click
Zoom to Layer and we're...
We're already there basically.
And we're--
going to create a book part. Book
mark named Maricopa County. So...
Good maps, bookmarks,
New bookmark. Maricopa.
over county.
Okay. And then we'll see.
We can also turn off both of the base maps.
in the contents pane so this world hill shade
world topographic map we can get rid of
of those.
In the content screen we'll right click tracks again.
and we'll click data design.
build.
So, just bring us to the Fields view for...
the tracks. If you remember we can get there.
There are a couple different ways.
This is just to show you another way we can--
get to the Fieldsview, I'll also show you the way that
we were doing it in previous tutorials a little bit later on in the
one. Okay, so...
Remember that FieldView allows you to...
Either create or modify fields in our table.
there are a few exceptions.
we can't delete the primary key of the table.
Remember, that's the object ID that's assigned by GIS.
We can't delete the shape.
Shape.
length or shape area field. So they're all
We need all of those and you'll notice that all of them are grayed out to end.
that we cannot get rid of them.
And we are going to
select all rows, etc.
except for our grayed out.
one, so our object ID shape, shape length, and shape.
area and GLID. So the only
The only ones we want to keep are other ones.
object ID, shape, geo ID, shape.
length and shape area. So we're going to press control and
And we can get rid of the.
this shape length and I know that's confusing.
We wanna keep this gray.
out this great out shape plane.
and this geoid, sorry.
actually did this earlier so it's definitely showing
updated one. For you, you're gonna see a lot of
more variables, so make sure the only variable is
variables that you still have will follow the same process.
are these five objectivity shaped geo-objectivity.
shape length and shape area. And once you've highlighted the one
ones you want to delete, you highlight them.
right click in this little box over here and press
delete and you'll notice that they
get crossed out before they actually get deleted.
So remember this is
in the editing field yet or still so we need to
save our changes before it'll actually delete.
If we, I'll show you this right here.
So if I do,
decide to delete geo
I realized actually I want to keep GID.
What you can do is go over to this little green box.
over here before you press save right click
it and press this restore button in order to
I'm going to delete it for you.
So once we have the action...
variables that we want deleted, highlighted,
and deleted, we can press save here.
And so we see we only have a lot of people.
have these five very well.
Okay.
So now we can close this field's view.
and open the tracks attribute table.
So right click after you have a look at the next video.
table so you'll see that we still only
have those five variables here.
We are going to add a field and put a
popular it using the Calculate Field Tool.
So with the...
the tracks attribute table open.
And this is, as I promised, how you get
to the field view the other way. So if once we have the attributes open we can
You can also click these three lines right here if you remember.
and go up to here and press field view.
So to bring us to the same exact page we were just...
on. At the bottom of the field's
view where it says click here to add a new field where
going to click there. We are going to create
a new variable called geo-arrac-
ID num.
And we're going to click.
It's so cool.
It says double for its data type.
in the tutorial book.
I will say that I realized when I was working.
through this earlier that the
variable that we're going to be joining it with in pop you.
Remember, we have to have them in the same data format.
is actually a big...
integer number. So
Let me see if that's an option here.
If not, we will go.
double. Okay, it's in.
it is. So I'm going to change us to big energy.
I might regret this because it might not be the same as earlier.
but I'm going to change it to big.
and to Jer and press save.
And actually while we're here, let me open this.
this and we can just check right now to see
what it is. So we're going
to show Fieldview and eventually we will be
merging these tables on this ID variable.
if you want to see here. This ID is
It's just the GLID, just it's a different name.
remember that we can merge tables based on different--
variable names, but they need to be the same type.
So we'll check here and ID is in fact a bit.
big integer so I'm going to keep it
as a big integer in our tracks here.
See right here.
Okay, and I believe I can close up.
of the field's view.
for this. Okay, so back on the track.
You'll see the next one.
new variable this geoid num is
Here, but every single value is null, which means
that the data cells are empty and no data have added.
actually been added yet. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
Right click the G-O-I-D-NUM variable name.
And we're going to click calculate field.
So in this calculate field pane...
We are going to make sure this says GeoID 9.
It should because we just clicked on it and down here
It says G i, do num equals.
We're going to.
double click this Geo ID.
And you'll notice that it has an exclamation point.
before and after the variable name.
So this.
This is a syntax from Python.
programming language, so it requires the attribute name.
on whatever the right side of the equal sign is.
to be identified using exclamation point delimiters.
So that's why they add them.
You can also manually type this.
if you want, but we're gonna save some steps here
and just double click it.
and so we can press okay.
And now you'll see that our G.
The GUIDs are now in this GUID.
variable and if we looked at.
Let's go to Fieldview.
Now it says numeric.
So we're good there.
And now he merges.
Oh, I should also mention for the G.O.I.D. you'll notice
that they were leading zeros before and we didn't want that either.
Sorry, side note.
Okay.
So now we can...
Close both of these tables.
And we're going to join a data table to a feature.
class so remember in the lecture I talked about
joining tables to these different future layers are
very important for adding a new product.
that additional information or that context so we can actually spatial
analyze data and not just look at a pretty
map. So in the contents pane
we're going to right click tracks. We want to join things to do.
We want to join the information from the pop youth table.
to our tracks and we are going
to click joins and relates and
and then add join.
Okay.
So it should be.
automatically say input table is tracks because we don't
only have one table in our contents pane, it will also default.
to this pop youth. If you have more than one table you do
want to double check that the join table is correct.
For our input field, we are going to
put our new GID num variable that we just
created and you're gonna see this warning right here.
about it's not indexed.
and you can actually ignore that indexing.
is it speeds the process up a little bit.
If we--
We are joining a ton of rows, but we're not joining
that many in the grand scheme of things so we don't need.
to do the indexing.
Um, we are going to Val-
validate the join.
So this is just gonna double check that we don't have any problems.
with our two tables and doesn't look like we're
getting any warning errors there so now it can present.
Okay.
And now we're going to be doing this.
can open the tracks at your
table to see that in fact
In fact, we have a question.
Now we have all of our population total.
and our breakdown of population.
Under the age of 20 in our...
table and it's joined to all of our tracks.
So we have all of that in one attribute table.
now. Okay, so
Let me show you the
Fields view here. So you'll
You'll notice that the
Field names here all have this pop.
use prefix so it's pop youth.
dot object id pop youth dot id.
And that indicates
that are featured in the video.
class, join isn't actually permanent.
So what we need to do is we need to
export the feature class to make that join permanent.
because right now if we exited out,
we wouldn't have to go.
keep the join. We would have to redo the join and
that's a whole other step we don't want to do. So let's exit out.
of that and then...
And I think I can close out a tr-
to maybe not. So let's
So in the contents pane, we're going to
right click tracks we are going
to click data or hover over data and we're going to click
export features and in the end
Export Features pane, we're gonna change the output feature class name.
to Maricopa tracks so we can keep that input feed
Here we're going to rename it to
to mirror hope.
tracks.
And done.
We will press OK.
And so now you see the...
that it added it as a feature onto
the contents pane but you'll also notice that
added it into our geo database over here this marriage.
copotracts. Not with...
Let's see.
Yeah, that could show.
show you here. Let's open the attribute table for the Maricopa
tracks and if we go to the
Fields view again. You'll see now
that we don't have that pop youth dot object ID.
popute.id. It's just the names of the variables.
So that means that our join is now permanent,
and we don't have to--
redo it if we open this project again later.
Okay.
So now we're going to
remove the tracks layer from our
our contents pane because we're just gonna use this Maricopa track.
we can right click tracks, remove it.
And as I was saying earlier, notice that.
that we've removed it from the contents pane,
but we still have it.
over here so we haven't deleted it from our geo database just by removing it.
it from the map. So now we're
to calculate the sum of fields. So...
So one reason that we did this job was that we did this job.
in the first place was that we want to map the
youth population under the age of 20 in Maricopa.
County and you'll notice that the
you. I can show you again.
the actual variables instead of just one variable called
youth under 20. It's broken up in
to under five, five to nine, 10 to 14, 15 to nine.
So we need to sum up all of these different.
columns to get a final number that's the
total number of people under 20.
So let's see.
So we're going to...
Go to the feet.
and layer here so we're gonna go to Field Field.
Or Maricopa Trax.
So we're going to scroll to the bottom and we're going to click here.
to add a new field. And our new field is going to come
be called pop use.
under 20.
And I don't think it matters what type of thing.
I did it. So, copy thunder 20. We'll
save that so that it's in our
data.
Now if we go to America with the tracks attribute table, we should have...
Pop youth under 20 and remember
just because we added doesn't mean there are enough variables.
It's all...
So we need to actually tell GIS what
to put there. So we are going to
So right click Pop-U Thunder 20 and we're going to go to calculate.
field again.
And in the text box after pop
under 20 equals, so right here.
We're going to...
Two.
Pop under five, so double click pop under five.
then click this plus then we're going to
Add pop 5 to 9 plus.
And again, you could type all this out manually if you want.
but we're gonna double click pop 10 to 14.
plus pop 15 to 19.
So it should sum up every single one of these variables.
for each of our rows. So we'll click apply.
just to make sure nothing happens.
Nothing bad happens. Let me clarify.
and bell.
Now we have the sum of our numbers for our total.
pop youth under 20 for each of the
census tracks. Okay.
And from here, we're gonna keep the
tracks attribute table open.
We're going to calculate the percentage of total population.
under 20 years old.
Hopefully, I won't say "hopefully."
Maybe we all know that the way that we would get
the percent of the population that's under 20%
20 is we would divide this part.
population under 20 by the total population.
population says pop total and then multiply that
by 100 to get the actual percent.
So now we're going to go to our Fields view again.
We're going to click.
here to add a new field and we're going to name
this percent power.
Stop.
Use.
under 20.
And we will press save.
Remember to press save.
save after every time you add a new variable.
or do anything.
Let's see, let's go back here.
And now we need to...
to calculate our percent possible.
youth under 20. So...
a kind of detour here that we need.
to make is that I will show you actually.
If we go to our pop total here and we
sort it. You'll notice that there are four
census tracts that have zero population.
So what we don't want to do is divide anything.
by zero because we'll get a no value. So we
We don't want to include these four values.
in our actual calculation.
So what we can do is we can
under the map tab so we should all
already be there. We're going to go to this select by Atro.
and it'll open up
the attributes pane where we can do an
SQL and it says where
We'll do pop total.
is greater than the other.
then and you can either type or click zero.
depending on how lazy you're feeling. I'm feeling lazy.
And then we will press OK.
So you can see the--
that now every other census tract
minus those four that we don't want to include are
selected and if we press calculate
field now, it'll only do the
the calculation that we're specifying for.
the selected variables. They're selected census tracts.
Okay. So...
So now once those are selected, now we can right click.
and press calculate field.
And we are going to, it says percent popular.
youth under 20. So remember we want to make sure that's the same and it will
So carry over your last.
SQL typically, so just delete that.
and we're going to do
100.
times and I'm just typing that out.
Pop youth under children.
20 divided by...
"Pap total"
And okay.
Bye.
And there we go.
Now we have actual percentages for our
population youth under 20.
all of our different census tracts. And so now we can
clear the selection so this button up here in the top.
The
has all blank rows plus clear selection.
And we can close.
Both of those tables may be...
here's the tracks table for now.
But the next thing we'll do is we will...
will extract substring fields and connoisseurs.
catenate string fields. So these are
more sophisticated techniques.
for working with text fields.
So essentially...
It's extracting parts of texturing.
and kind of reassembling them and restructuring them in
into a new text field.
So we're kind of...
like Frankenstein-ing and reverse Frankenstein-ing.
staining, however you want to say that. These days...
different variables.
to get what we want here. So, let's see.
And we'll show you with an example.
We're going to, we actually do need the Maricopa tracks.
Adjunct.
table open so.
I don't like that.
Okay. And we're...
going to sort the Maricopa Tracks attribute table in a
sending order for GeoID, so we want this.
smallest one on top and
The way that we read this G-O-I-D.
is four is four.
the state 013.
is the county and then this zero
10101 is all part.
of the census tract component.
And the way we actually read, and that's based on answers.
codes if you remember from the lecture. In the way...
we read census tract components
is it's generally four digits.
it's a decimal and then two digits afterwards.
So this would really be census tract.
track 0101.01.
And we want to separate all of them.
of those out so that we get each piece as its own.
separate variable or attribute.
So we are going to
to the field view again.
We're spending a lot of time in the field field here.
And we're--
going to add three new variables.
we're going to add, go to the down.
click here to add a new field we are going to add
track number.
And it's going to be...
a text.
variable.
And it's going to be...
be a length of four.
or press enter there. And.
we want to add another one.
that is tracked.
suffix?
And this is also a check.
I'm going to try to get my next very moment. Overshot it.
And the length of the circle.
for this one will be.
two and then our
last variable we're adding.
is tracked.
Oh, nay.
And it's going to be the same.
going to be a text variable as well.
but this time the length is going to be
20.
Okay.
So we can save those changes with our new
new variables or new attributes.
And we're going to calculate the track number field first.
So it's going to our actual attribute table.
And remember we will scroll over here.
to this track number.
right here. So we are going to
So right click.
Calculate field.
and the track number field, remember let's delete it.
this. Our track number field
is going to be the expression.
So this is telling it what...
variable or attribute we are taking.
this information from because we're going to do a subset of the variable.
and we're going to type bracket.
bracket five.
colon nine and then
close bracket. So what this is telling us is
what this is telling GIS to do really.
is that we want to take a subset of GID.
Starting at the fifth digit in.
And that's kind of confusing because when we start counting...
it starts at zero. So we go zero.
one, two, three, four, five. And then it's going to be
take all of the numbers to the ninth
digit place, not including the 9th digit place.
But that is very confusing to say aloud, so I will show you what I'm doing.
I mean by that.
So let's just have this typed out so we can.
I can.
show you. Okay.
So I'll make it back to the action.
actual G.O.I.D.
So if we're doing five to nine, so we're going to keep
count first. Oops, not here.
not GID number.
Okay.
So starting at 0, 0, 1, 2.
three, four, five. So this is where
is going to start reading the number from.
5 6 7 8 9
but remember it doesn't actually include that last digit so it's gonna go one.
back so it should.
If we did this correctly, the track numbers...
The new track number for this first one should be 0-1.
So let's go.
over here and check and it is 010101.
one. So we did our expression correctly. So that's how you
figure out what numbers you need to put there.
We will also do it for track suffix.
So we're going to right click calculate field.
And for this, we are going to do...
So we can keep this and instead of five
Five to nine, we're gonna do nine.
2.11.
Okay. So this is the first one.
should take the next two numbers after the zero-weight.
and it was 0101.
one so that's easy for us to check so we did get it right
there that we got the next two numbers.
Now for track name...
We're going to right click, calculate fee.
field. And
Trackname is going to be we're gonna name where
I have to do some actual typing here.
So do a print the... a print the...
is no quotation mark and then write.
It's census tracked and then make sure.
put a space before.
the other quotation mark.
and then plus and you'll see
why, but we want to have a space between the
end of tract and the numbers.
So it's like a sentence.
So the part...
sign and then we will go.
Track number.
plus, and then we're gonna do another
quotation mark. Period.
Remember, we have a decimal in the way.
we typically read census tract numbers so we need to have that decimal.
and then plus sign.
and then tracked suffix at the end.
So let's apply that.
And now you can see that...
has it written out.
So it's census tract 0101.
dot 01 instead of just written out.
all together so people know exactly where we're
referring them to. And then we can
Send it by a sending or sort it by a sending
by track name, and I don't think that should change anything really.
And that is all for today.
tutorial 4-2. So again, remember
this is totally up to you whether you want to keep it or not.
I will.
save it because why not we did all that work I want to
make sure I have something to show for it. And that is
all for tutorial 4-2. Remember for the
a thousand times, you do not have to submit anything for it.
So that's the end of this tutorial.
